Introduction :

Elastic Search is a realtime distributed,open source,full text search and analytics engine.
It is used for developing single page Applications.
It is accessible from Restful Webservices and uses json object to store data.
It enables users to explore very large amount of  data at very high speed.

Features :

Elastic search is scalabale upto petabyte of structured and unstructured data.
Elastic search can be used as a replacement of document stores like MongoDb and Raven DB.
Elastic search uses denormalization to improove search Performance.
Elastic search is one of the most popular search engines and is used by wikipidea,Stackoverflow and GitHub.
Elastic Search is open source and licence version is 2.0.


Key Concepts :
1.Node
2.Cluster
3.Index
4.Type/Mapping
5.Document
6.Shard
7.Replicas

Node :
Node refers to a single runnning instance of Elastic serach.
Single physical and virtual server accomodates multiple nodes depending upon the capabilities of Physical Resources like RAM,Storage and Processing power.

Cluster :
Cluster is a collection of one or more Nodes.
Cluster provides collective indexing and search capabilities across all the nodes for the entire Data.

Index : 
Index is a collection of different type of documents or document properties.
Index uses the concept of shard to improove the performance of the system.
Example: Set of documents contains data of Social Networking Application.

Type/Mapping:
It is a collection of documents sharing the same set of common fields present in the Index.
Example :An  Index contains a data of Social Networking Application and there can be a specific type for user profile data ,messaging data and comments data.

Document :
It is collection of fields in a specified mannaer defined in JSON format.
Each document belongs to a Type and resides inside Index.
Each document is associated with a Unique identifier named as UID.

Shard :
Index are horizontally Sub divided into Shards.
Each Shard Contains all the properties of Document but less number of JSON objects than Index.
The Horizontal Seperation Makes Shard an Independent Node Which can Be stored in any Node.
Primary Shard is the Original Horizinatal Part of an Index and these Primary Shards are converted into Replica Shards.

Replica :
Elastic search Allows user to create Replicas of their Indexes and Shards.
Replicas Not Only helps in Availaibility Of Data in case of Failure But Also Improoves the Performance of the System by carrying out a paralell search in these.

Features:

Elastic Search is developed in java which makes compatible on alomost every platform.
Elastic Search is real Time i.e After one second the added document is searchable in this Engine.
Elastic Search is distributed which makes easy to scale and Integrate in any big Organization.
Creating Full backups are easy but using the concept of GateWay.
Elastic Search returns JSON object as Response.
Handling Multi Tenancy is very Easy in Elastic Search.



 