------------------------- Jenkins Interview Quetsions -----------------------------------------------
1. What is Jenkins
2. What is the difference between Jenkins and Hudson
3. What SCM tools does Jenkins support
4. How can you tell what version of Jenkins you are using?
5. What is continuous integration in Jenkins
6. What are the pre-requisites for using Jenkins
7. How can you move or copy Jenkins from one server to another server
8. Commands to use to start Jenkins manually
9. What are the most useful plugins in Jenkins
10. How to create a Jenkins job and what are the types
11. What are the two components that Jenkins mainly integrate with?
12. What is the default session timeout value in Jenkins and How can you increase the session timeout value?
13. Explain about Jenkins security mechanism
14. How can you pass parameters from one job to another job in Jenkins?
15. Explain about build pipeline in Jenkins
16. How can someone execute the jobs in Jenkins without having permissions to execute the job?
17. How to re-execute a parameterized build job without entering the parameter values when the job fails? Note:- Job should not ask for parameters and it should run with the values of parameters that you entered during previous execution
18. How to install plugins in Jenkins
19. How can configure slaves/nodes in Jenkins
20. How to run jobs in slaves

What are the job templates you are using? How to create a new iteam/job?
What is the difference between Maven and free-style job and Pipeline templates?
Where to configure the code repo details? (under SCM section).
Difference between Build Periodical & Poll SCM, define each?
How to configure Sonar in Jenkins job?
Email notification? (Tow types, 1. email notification & Editable Email notification to send attachments too).
What is the fix for OutOfMemory issue. (increasase HEAP size, need to add it to maven Options).
Environment varibales?
How to install a plugin? (two ways)
Different way of providing access to users? Matrix/Project/Rolebased based security. Which one you are using?
How to add a user & provide permissions.
What is minimum required to install Jenkins? (Java should be installed).
Different types of Build errors/issues you faced in your work environemnt? (3 types. 1-->Network or anyother issues which whould be fixed by ALM/LTS/Support teams, 2-->Some errors which whould be fixed by Build Team, for example, wrong job congiguration, 3-->Some other errors which whould be fixed by Dev Team, for example, Compilation errros, test case failures etc.)
What are the different types of job templtes you used. Maven, free-style, pipeline, multibranch pipeline etc.
Up-Stream, Down-Stream jobs (pipeline setup)?
What is Parameterized job? How to pass the parameters from one job to anotehr job?
Pipeline script for CI/CD?
What are the automations you have done? Using groovy script create/rename/delete/disable the Jenkins jobs?
How to take backup? (backup plugin)
What is Jenkins node/slave?
How to creare & configure slave/node in jenkins?
What arte the plugin you installed?
How to copy the artifacts from one job to another job?
How to add Java/Maven/Gradle/Git paths in jenkins? (Global Tool Configuration).
What is "Manage Plugin"?
Pipeline scripts: Declarative vs Scripted vs Shared libs
Sections in Declarative/Scripted pipeline script
Importance of Shared libs in Jenkins?
how to configure in Jenkins (Configure System >> Global Pipeline Libraries) ?


