1.Introduction              (27-DEC-2019) (DONE)
2.Topics and Partitions		(27-DEC-2019) ()
3.Producer					(27-DEC-2019) ()
4.Consumer					(27-DEC-2019) ()


1.Introduction :
****************
Kafka is a Messaging System.
There are some Sources which are Producing the Data and Publishes the Data to the Messaging System.
There are Some Systems Which Consumes the Data.
Sources which Produces the Data are Called Producers.
System which Takes the Data are Called Brokers.
System Which Consumes the Data is Called Consumers.
The System Which Produces the Data Can be Any Application Like Web Site,Back End Application etc.
We Can Pass the Data to Another Application Which Can be a Consumer and Here The Communication is One To One.
If The Data Needs to Be Consumed By Multiple Consumers Then Producer has to Take The Responsibility
Of Providing the Data to Multiple Consumers.
Here Producer Can be Any Application Like Web Site,Back End Application etc and Cannot Handle This Scenario.
Here Comes the Messaging System which acts as a Broker Between Producer and Consumer.
Messaging System allows the Producer to Push the Data  
and Messaging System is Responsible to Provide the Data to the Consumers.
Here Messaging System also Stores the Data in The Messaging System.
In Any Messaging System There are Producers,Consumers and Brokers.
Messaging System is also Called as Broker.
The Other Messaging Systems are JMS,RabitMQ,Active MQ etc and are Not Distributed.
These Messaging Systems are Single Point of Failure.
Kafka Provides Some Features Which are Not Available in Other Messaging System.

Distributed :
-------------
We Have The Provision to Start the Multiple Kafka Servers(Cluster) and That Acts as a Single Messaging System i.e
We Have The Flexibility to Create a Cluster and That Contains Multiple Brokers.
Whenever any Producer is Publishing The Data to the Kafka Messaging System,
Kafka Internally Handles the Distribution of Data
and Stores the Data into Multiple Brokers inside the Kafka Cluster.
Here The Consumer Can Access the Data From Multiple Brokers inside the Kafka.

Message Storage System :
------------------------
Whenever Any Producer is Publishing the Data into the Messaging System,Kafka Internally Stores the Data in the 
Messaging System Until We Explicitly Mention the Retention Period.
Here Multiple Consumers can Still Access the Data From the Kafka.
In Other Messaging System as There is No Concept of Message Storage System,
The Other Consumers Cannot Access The Past Data.

Fault Tolerance :
-----------------
It is Related To High Availability.
Kafka Has Multiple Brokers Which Takes Care of Consuming the Data From Producers 
and Providing the Data To The Consumers.
Here Multiple Brokers are Responsible To Process and Store The Data.
If Any of The Node Goes Down,Other Nodes Will Take Care of Processing The Data.

Real Time Streaming Messaging System :
--------------------------------------
For Example We Have Continuous Message Data Coming From the Producer System as Kafka is Highly Available,
Distributed and Multiple Nodes inside the Cluster.
Kafka also has the Capability  of Storing the Data into The System.
Kafka also Helps to Process the Real Time Data.
Whenever any Message Comes to Kafka System,Kafka Helps to Transform the Data  and Then Provide the Data to The Consumer.

UseCases of Kafka :
-------------------
In E Commerce Application Multiple Users are Browsing the Application.
If We Want to Improve the User Experience We Need to Provide the Solution Based on Experience Instantly.
We Need to Stream the User Navigation and Publish the Data to The Messaging System.
Based on Events We Can Provide the Solution to the User.
We Can also Store The Data in Other System Like Big Data,Database or Another Kafka Topic.
RealTime Solutions are Helpful in Improving the Business.

2.Topics and Partitions :
*************************
Producer System will Publish the Messages to the Kafka Broker and Consumer System will Consume the Messages form Kafka.
Kafka Internally has a Mechanism to Create a Topic and Every Producer System will Publish the Messages to the Kafka Topic.
Here Multiple Producers can Publish the Messages to a Single or Multiple Topic.
Similarly Consumer System will consume the Messages from Multiple Topics.

Partitions :
------------
Here Kafka is a Distributed System.
The Messages are stored in a Distributed Manner and Distribution cam be ACheived by Using Partitions.
Whenever Multiple Messages are Coming to the Kafka Topic and these Messages are Distributed among Kafka Broker.
Here Distributed can be ACheived by Using Partitions.
Whenever we Create a Topic We Need to Create a Partitions for that Topic as Per Requirement.

For Example We Have Created 4 Partitions for a Single Topic.
Topic 0 and 1 Sits in Broker1
Topic 2 Sits in Broker2
Topic 3 Sits in Broker3

Whenever we Create a Kafka Cluster it Internally Contains Kafka Servers in the Kafka Cluster.
Here Kafka Servers is Nothing But Kafka Brokers and Each Broker Contains Different Partitions.
In this Case For a Single Topic we Have 3 Kafka Servers in the Kafka Cluster with Different Partitions.
Kafka Internally Looks For the Availability For The Creation of Partitions Based on Physical Storage.
and Also It Will Make Sure The Distribution is Highly Achievable.
Here Each Partition Sits in the Different Broker for Highly Availability.

Here Multiple Messages are Coming to the Topic and How the Data is Stored Internally inside the Each Partition of the Topic.

Message M1 sits in the Partition 1
Message M2 sits in the Partition 2
Message M3 sits in the Partition 3
Message M4 sits in the Partition 4
Message M5 sits in the Partition 1
and so on.

Producer will just Publish the Data to the Topic 
and Kafka Internally Distributes the Messages among Different Partitions.

Message Storing in Partition :
------------------------------
Consider We Have 4 Partitions For a Single Topic and Multiple Messages are Coming for a Single Topic.
Kafka Internally Creates a Log File in the Physical Storage For Each Partition 
and all the Messages Which are Coming for a Particular Topic will be Committed in the Particular Log File.
Kafka Manages the Sequencing of the Messages in the Log File For the Particular Partition Using Off Set.
Off Set is aUnique Identifier for the Particular Message.
Offset Numbers Helps in Identifying The Messages Read by Consumer Program.
Once The Message is read by Consumer Program it will Mark as read and It wont read the Message again.
This Can be achieved by using Offset Number.
Here Multiple Consumers can Read the Messages from Different Partitions of the Topic Because Messages are Stored inside Log File.

Replication :
-------------
For Example Message M1 is Stored in the Partition 0 with and OffSet Number.
Replication says whichever Partition Gets The First Message To Store is Called Leader Partition for that Particular Message M1.
Similarly Message M5,M8,M9,M11,M15 will sits into the Partition 0.
Here Kafka Replicates these Messages into Other Partitions also.
For Example We Have Configured a Replication Factor as 3,Whenever any New Message is Coming to the Particular Partition,
Then That Partition will become the Leader Partition and Based on the Replication Factor,Same Message will also be Stored inside
Other Partition.
The Other Partitions which are Storing the Same Messages is called Follower Partitions.
Advantage of Follower Partition is If Particular Partition goes Down or Kafka Broker that Contains the Particular Partition
goes down,Then Kafka will COnvert the Follower Partition as Leader Partition.
These Partitions will Provide the Data to the Consumers.
This is How High Availability and Fault Tolerance Can Be ACheived in Kafka.







 

